.TH "ALIEN-ROOT" "7" "April 18, 2022" "Tribblix"
.SH "NAME"
alien-root zone variant
.SH DESCRIPTION
The alien-root zone brand in Tribblix allows you to run an
alternative illumos distribution in a zone.
.LP
The current implementation simply populates the zone file systems from
a tarball, a live ISO image, or a zfs send stream. Tarballs generated
by the zmvix.sh script from the mvi project
(https://github.com/ptribble/mvi) should be suitable. Installation ISO
images from OmniOS prior to r151022, OpenIndiana, XStreamOS, and DilOS
should be recognised. For ZFS send streams, the PXE images provided by
the OmniOSce project can be used. Any further customization or software
installation must be done inside the zone.
.LP
The approach used is fragile due to the nature of stable interfaces in
illumos. Namely, the userland in the zone must be similar to that in
the global zone. In illumos, the stability boundary is exposed by
libc; the kernel interface to libc is private. Therefore, the version
of the kernel and libc in the alien zone must be similar to that in
the global zone. No check is made for compatibility, the user is
entirely responsible for making sure that the combination will work.
.LP
(In practice, the rate of change of kernel interfaces in illumos is
low. While creating an alien zone from a newer version of a
distribution than the version of Tribblix installed in the global zone
may be problematic, if the alien distribution is older than the version
of Tribblix in the global zone there is a good chance of success.)
.LP
The recommended way to create zones in Tribblix is to use the
zone-create subcommand of the \fBzap\fR(1) utility.
.LP
For an alien-root zone, specify -t alien as follows.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBzap create-zone -t alien ...\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp
.LP
The location of the tarball or ISO image to be used as the source for
the zone file system needs to be specified as follows.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBzap create-zone ... -I\fR \fI/path/to/distro.iso\fR \fB...\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp
.SH NOTES
If the alien zone uses the IPS packaging system, then you should issue
the following command in the newly created zone.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBpkg change-variant variant.opensolaris.zone=nonglobal\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp
.LP
And then reboot the zone.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBzap\fR(1), \fBbrands\fR(7), \fBzones\fR(7)
