.TH "WHOLE-ROOT" "7" "December 21, 2025" "Tribblix"
.SH "NAME"
whole-root zone variant
.SH DESCRIPTION
The whole-root zone brand in Tribblix is similar to, but not identical
to, the whole-root zones in Solaris 10.
.LP
By default, the newly created zone will have a complete copy of the
software installed in the global zone. Unlike Solaris 10, you can
easily create a zone with a subset of the global zone's software
packages, and can easily add additional software at zone creation time.
.LP
The recommended way to create zones in Tribblix is to use the
create-zone subcommand of the \fBzap\fR(1) utility.
.LP
For a whole-root zone, specify -t whole as follows.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBzap create-zone -t whole ...\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp
.LP
To limit the new zone to only containing a subset of the global zone's
installed package overlays, use the -o flag, for example.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBzap create-zone ... -o\fR \fIdevelop\fR \fB...\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp
.LP
To add an additional package overlay to the new zone, use the -O flag,
for example.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBzap create-zone ... -O\fR \fIdevelop-extras\fR \fB...\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp
.LP
To copy an individual package from the global zone to the new zone,
use the -p flag with a package name or alias. This is only valid in
conjunction with -o, as otherwise the whole global zone is copied
anyway. For example.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBzap create-zone ... -p\fR \fItcsh\fR \fB...\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp
.LP
To add an additional package to the new zone, use the -P flag,
for example.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBzap create-zone ... -P\fR \fItcsh\fR \fB...\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zap (1),
.BR brands (7),
.BR overlays (7),
.BR sparse-root (7),
.BR zones (7)
